---
title: Julia Beauchamp Kraft at UX Camp Spring Home Edition 2021 (Video)
date: 2021-05-16 09:00 CDT
category: posts
tags: 2021, ux-camp
---

### Speak to Inspire: Confident Communication in the Distributed World

<figure class="update-video">
  <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/545285735" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</figure>

Julia Beauchamp Kraft presented &#8220;Speak to Inspire: Confident Communication in the Distributed World&#8221; at UX Camp Spring 2021. Enjoy! READMORE

### Julia Beauchamp Kraft

#### Founder, Speak to Inspire

Julia Beauchamp Kraft is the founder of the public speaking training company, Speak To Inspire. Founded in 2014, Speak To Inspire has trained 1000&#8217;s of entrepreneurs and professionals as well as 100&#8217;s of companies like Linked In, Salesforce, ZScaler, Twitter, etc. She is passionate about helping smart professional women who are experts at what they do but tend to freeze up, shrink down and get self-conscious when the spotlight turns to them. She helps them to cultivate comfort in their skin, come across as the authority they are and turn high-quality information into inspiring presentations.

​​​*The following transcript very likely contains typographical errors. Please forgive any mistakes!*

It&#8217;s a pleasure to see all the other presenters rolling through&hellip; What I love is that it&#8217;s a lot of techy people here, and I&#8217;m not a techy person, but I do live in San Francisco, and I work with a lot of UX designers and text are out kind of people, so I totally know that world, and so we&#8217;re here today, let me bring my slides back, we&#8217;re there today to talk about your communication, which is about how you translate all that expertise that you have into a thought leadership and being confident in your ideas. Thank you, Vicky, think Laurie. Oh my gosh. Look at this little dog. Adorable, thank you so much. Okay, so we&#8217;re gonna talk about your communication type of&hellip; Yes, into the Slack room for&hellip;

Thank you, Samantha. Type A yes into the chat room in Slack, if you get a little nervous when the spotlight turns to you and if you&#8217;re a presenter here today, maybe that&#8217;s YouTube, your Arne feeling an urban as&hellip; Thank you, Alex and Laurie. Brad? Lisa? Yeah, totally. Lots of yeses coming in, a little bit, Brad, Karen. Oh my God, totally. And put a pre please. Pretty please. Into the Slack room. Thank you, Amin. Kinda? Yes. Okay, what pretty please into the chat box if you&#8217;d like to cultivate more confidence and comfort when you&#8217;re in front of the camera&hellip; Pretty please, Kevin. Giving us a full-on&hellip; Yes. Okay, lots of party places from Laurie carry and Amy. Lisa? Yeah, okay, I hear you. That&#8217;s what we&#8217;re here to cultivate today, so I&#8217;m Julia Bach and craft, your authentic expression, mentor and public speaking coach.

And I support professional women and some great men to find their authentic voice and shy in the spotlight, and ultimately to inspire others with their aliveness in their presence, yeah.

I found it speak to inspire programs about seven years ago, and I&#8217;ve helped women to develop rock solid confidence and overcome nerves without scripts. I&#8217;m not about scripts, and without robotic public speaking skills, like a lot of public speaking trainings are&hellip;

I created the confidence on stage program, which we&#8217;ll hear a little bit about tonight or today, which has supported hundreds of women to learn foundational public speaking skills and unravel their authentic voice, that&#8217;s what I&#8217;m all about for those high stakes communication moments when the stakes are high, I&#8217;ve also, I used to facilitate as a corporate trainer or a lot, hundreds of companies around the country. Like LinkedIn, Salesforce, Twitter, etcetera. I&#8217;m sure I&#8217;ve had clients that are Ted into text speakers, but most of my clients are probably more like all of you, your professionals and entrepreneurs who just wanna be more comfortable and confident, whatever their spotlight is, and it&#8217;s&hellip; We&#8217;re saying despite even I have a degree in acting, I&#8217;m an Italian.

I talk with my hands like in to help, but despite all of that, I still have struggled with my own performance anxiety and nerves when I started speaking as myself because talk about high stakes situations when you speak as yourself and about the things that you&#8217;re passionate about, what you&#8217;ve put your energy and expertise into, there&#8217;s a lot at stake. I&#8217;m also a wife and a mother of these two cute kiddie. Wanna just share that with you a little bit more about me. Alright, so let&#8217;s dive in. You&#8217;re in the right place for this talk, if you have important talks or meetings coming up and you wanna bring your fast, but you have a history of performance anxiety or nerves, but

I wanna say that you&#8217;re also in the right place, if you&#8217;re not on stages or in leadership positions, but you know that you have something important to say and you want to Free Your Voice, you feel that desire&hellip;

Yeah, so whatever your spot light is, which is what we need to figure out now, so you have it in mind while you listen to the talk, what is your spotlight? It could be a stage, a webinar, a round table meeting and interview and important one-on-one, etcetera. Right into the Slack room for me, what is your spotlight? So I know the kind of situations and contexts that you guys are in, and I can adjust this to you&hellip; What are your spotlights? Love to hear what your spotlights are.

Have all the creative things in the chat box here, the picture is and everything, Lindsay facilitating workshops in leadership. Thank you, Lindsey. Got it. What else are your spotlights guys? Where are you speaking? Yeah, Laurie&hellip; Client presentations and workshops similar&hellip; Client presentations are more one-on-one, Laurie, or is it a group? Alex presenting research to executives&hellip; Yeah, who could be an intimidation factor there? For sure. Group Lory got it. Todd, interviews and workshops. Got it. Constantly educating stakeholders, aage routine meetings, got at Lisa, lots of high pressure sales pitches, gosh, those are intense year Kevin meetings and lots of big meetings, job interviews in the planet. Okay, thank you so much, have this in mind, have your situations in mind while we work together today, I gotta introduce you to some basic vocabulary that we can understand how high work&hellip; That there&#8217;s two parts of communication, there&#8217;s verbal and non-verbal that might be obvious, but these two things are trained differently to verbal communication is all the words that you say, and non-verbal communication is everything other than the words that you say, so&hellip; Right into the Slack room for me. What are some examples of non-verbal communication? Everything other than your words.

What&#8217;s non-verbal communication?

Yeah, eye rolling. Kevin winking. Yeah, I like that. Gestures, facial expressions. Perfect Body Position. Absolutely, I contact a big one. She has pauses. Yes, exactly. Pacing with pause, as we said, Yes, in hopefully, you&#8217;re not yawning in the middle of your presentation, Alex. Yeah, everything from how you use your body to how you use your voice, pacing, the tempo, the tone and pitch of your voice, gestures, etcetera, so everything in terms of non-verbal, and there&#8217;s two different parts of confidence, there&#8217;s outer confidence, which is how others perceive you and there&#8217;s in our confidence, which is how you perceive you, and a lot of times, these two things are very out of congruence, they&#8217;re just different, you might feel like you did terribly on a presentation, but then you get feedback like you&hellip; That was great. You seem so confident, but you might have felt like like you were dying on the inside, so ultimately we&#8217;d like those&hellip; Did you can grant&hellip; But a lot of times it&#8217;s off. And that&#8217;s why you do this kind of training that we&#8217;re gonna work on today. So what are we gonna cover? We&#8217;re gonna talk about managing nerves, how your nervous system works and why you get nervous, we&#8217;re gonna talk about mastering non-verbal communication for influence and engagement, we&#8217;re gonna talk about taming technology, which is our modern world, how to relate to technology in a way that&#8217;s empowering and use it to engage and entice your audience.

Yeah.

Sounds good. Let&#8217;s dive in. Alright, the managing nerves piece. Let&#8217;s start with that, that&#8217;s the foundation, and I wanna normalize it right there from the beginning to that speaking before a group is the number one fear when there&#8217;s studies done, maybe you&#8217;ve heard this and look, it&#8217;s significantly more than the other ones. And if you look a little deeper. What&#8217;s number seven there? It&#8217;s death.

So I&#8217;m on that, Jerry Seinfeld. What does he call? A little stand-up thing that he does, he says, If this statistic is true, that means if we&#8217;re all at a funeral, we&#8217;d rather be in the casket than up giving the eulogy. I don&#8217;t know, that&#8217;s quite true, but look, public speaking is a common, very common fear, and it can be something that really terrifies us. And why does it terrify us? Well, we need to talk about the nervous system to understand why you might not be feeling so confident from the inside out. I love this picture of this little due to this little guy, he expresses it so perfectly what it might feel for, but I feel like for you on the inside, right, that it feels like this frozen state, the muscles get type the shoulders go up, the eyes get big. You&#8217;re barely breathing, right? Even if you&#8217;re putting on a good show and people don&#8217;t even notice on the outside, maybe you feel like this on the insight, give me a thumbs up or something in a chat box to let me know that you relate to this, or this makes sense.

Let me know in the chat box that you&#8217;re following me with this, this poor little guy on the state, so you wanna just scoop him up and get him off of there&hellip; Okay, lots of thumbs up. Yeah, Lindsey, Lisa, Kevin, Laurie, Alex, 100%, totally. Okay, so let&#8217;s go a little deeper into your nervous system, understanding what&#8217;s going on.

This is a pretty deep topic, this is from Polly bagel theory, goes into neuroscience. I teach a lot more about this in my programs, you can go to my website and get the win your nervous program and learn more about this, but really simple right now, there&#8217;s three different levels of your autonomic nervous system, which has been part of your nervous system that is engaged with the world, so the top level, they call it safe, social and engaged or colloquially, we think of it as the stay and play mode where, yeah, there&#8217;s things happening and it&#8217;s people to&hellip; To their stuff to do, but I don&#8217;t feel like there&#8217;s a threat out there, so I can stay engaged, I can stay and play with it, and the next level down is mobilized agitated and frantic, which colloquially we would call fight or flight. I&#8217;m sure you&#8217;ve heard of that.

This is when you start to perceive a threat out there to your well-being and survival, now that might not be a logical threat, it&#8217;s a perceived threat, &#8217;cause you ever&hellip; Is your survival ever really at stake with speaking, right, but our mind, Oh, goes creates with your spinning thoughts, and so it creates this perceived threat, so you might wanna fight back, which fighting back, interest speaking means getting dominant, so you people lean on the table and they get louder that someone asserting dominance over the situation in order to manage their own stress, but most people are too polite, too nice to do that, and so they skip over fight and go Right To Flight, and in the flight pattern, your legs are really mobilized and you&#8217;ll feel like a shaky biggies in your legs, which is really common with speaking, and you&#8217;ll start to do things that suddenly allow you to get away, even though of course when we&#8217;re speaking, we can&#8217;t actually get away, especially when the camera&#8217;s on&hellip; You can&#8217;t really get away. I have one client who just close down the camera once &#8217;cause she was too freaked out, but eventually you&#8217;re gonna have to answer for it.

Right, so we can&#8217;t actually run away&hellip; So one thing that you might do if you&#8217;re in flight mode, as you might lean on one side, you might cross your arms or lean into your hands, you might have your computer or something like this, there&#8217;s my microphone. And so that you&#8217;re sort of out of it. Out of the frame and your voice might start to drop, it&#8217;s really soft and interest your trends off, all of this is a version of fleeing the situation subtly.

But the reality is that we can never fully run away. Right, so what can we do? Well, that&#8217;s the next state non-Clapton shut down, which colloquially is called the Free State, mammals go into this all the time as a last resort, they act as if they&#8217;re dead in order to survive the situation and get through it. Now, think of yourself with an important high-stakes communication moment, do you often just bunker down and try to get through it, and then afterwards I&hellip; Of relief. Thank goodness, that&#8217;s&hellip; Now, I can relax. If

You relate to that experience, then you&#8217;ve been in some level of a free state during your presentation.

And the Free State is the most uncomfortable, the most stressful, and to be honest, the hardest one to get out of, we wanna catch your nervous system to stress that&#8217;s starting to build up before we get to the Free State, like I said, I can&#8217;t go too deep into this day, but just so you understand enough, &#8217;cause what we need to work on here, I&#8217;m gonna bring my own self off of the slide show for a second.

Is some practices to regulate your nervous system? Let&#8217;s do some together. Just like Colleen was, and then the last top is a perfect segue into what I&#8217;m teaching here. It&#8217;s a mindful breathing, and I&#8217;m gonna teach you some specific ways that you can manage your nervous system through your breathing, so do this with me, sit up a little taller, rest your arms down somewhere, take a deep breath and either close your eyes or turn them downwards this is the kind of speakers warm-up that you need to prepare, prepare your nervous system, prepare your mind and your emotions and your energy for a successful communication moment. Alright, so we&#8217;re focusing on our breath, follow my count as I guide you through some breathing, exhale to start all the breath out.

Inhale through the nose for four, three, two, one, and then exhale, alpha mouth for four, three, two, one. Inhale through the nose for four, three, two, one, and out the mouth for four, three, two, one. Last breath. Inhale for five, four, three, two, one, and out the mouth for five, four, three, two, one, go. Just three breaths there. Notice what&#8217;s different after slowing down debris and write that into the Slack room for me, what&#8217;s different after just 3 deep breaths. Curious what&#8217;s different is people typing&hellip;

Cal marwari awesome. I know it was a short practice, but it can make a difference, right, three deep breaths can fix a lot of things, shoulders have dislodged themselves from my years. Thank you care. And that&#8217;s awesome.

So we have this feeling more grounded. Good, fantastic. Okay, this is the beginning of working on Nervous System regulation, I don&#8217;t wanna leave you with just that&hellip; &#8217;cause it&#8217;s just a beginning. Right, so I&#8217;m gonna put something into that Slack room now as a next step, if you wanna do more of this nervous system regulation, work more calming practices, there&#8217;s a mini-course called the performance anxiety tool kit that I created my gift to you. Alright, let&#8217;s keep rolling along here, the next piece is around non-verbal communication, I love the statistic, it comes from a study that&#8217;s called the Dr. Fox study, and what they did is they brought in this big audience and two different speakers, the first speaker is a doctor that has PhD years and years of experience known as in his field for what he does, and then our second speaker is an actor that they hired to read a few articles of the real doctor before the presentation and give a presentation on one now, of course, the after had less knowledge, less depth of knowledge, but what do you think was different between their non-verbal communication? Well, our doctor stood behind a podium, had a script, had a pretty monitored voice.

Or after on the other hand, moved around the stage at the icon tact, the audience had lots of energy and dynamics and their voice, and afterwards the audience was asked, Well, who do you like more, who did you trust more, who do you think was more knowledgeable, and what was it about the speaker that led you to that conclusion? And this is what came up at 93% of what they were responding to was non-verbal communication&hellip; 93%. That&#8217;s on the box. So non-verbal communication, 55%, what they mean by that is anything the audience could see in the speaker&#8217;s body language, and then 38% tone, which is what they could hear in the speaker&#8217;s voice, and it just&hellip; 7% of the words, 7%. Wow, so how many of you spend 93% of your time before an important communication or presentation&hellip; Preparing your non-verbal communication. Right. No, we don&#8217;t usually do that. We take 95% of our time or more to prepare or content in our PowerPoint. Right.

So this is a paradigm shift here, what really matters, that your non-verbal communication is more impactful even online&hellip; Actually even more so online, I find. Than the words that you say, Well, let&#8217;s go a little deeper with us, your voice speaks louder than in your body. The reason I&#8217;m saying not, that I say sometimes is because when it comes to a virtual communication, often the audience is distracted, they have multiple windows open, they have text messages, they have family around, they can just look away and go get a snack or something, they&#8217;re distracted and so they&#8217;re often listening to you more than they&#8217;re watching you, and just add into that that you&#8217;re a little box up in the corner, sort of like I am right now, versus the PowerPoint being big, the visual of you is not gonna be as impactful as the voice. So if you go back to this, this is for in-person communication, in-person presentations, these days with Virtual, I would say that the tone is 55% or more, and the non-verbal communication is much less, but it&#8217;s still primarily non-verbals that are impacting an audience let&#8217;s talk about two ways you might be using your voice that diminishes your credibility and others perceiving you as confident, and those two ways are uploading or what sometimes called up-speak and fillers.

So we&#8217;ll start with the up speak up, wilting floating, is that every sentence sounds like a question, that my tone, my pitch goes up at the end, and I sound like I&#8217;m not sure&hellip; Or that I need your permission. Am I doing okay? Right into the chat box for me. Have you ever cost yourself up speaking and noticed it, have you ever been called out on

It, and here in my voice, what does it sound like? What impression does it give you when I have up-speed?

And then what&#8217;s the difference when I use what&#8217;s called down gliding? When I go down the end of the sentence, down at the end of the sentence And let&#8217;s experience this together, and I&#8217;ll be like this with just some sounds, D is up, speak, try it, dad.

And this is down. Sliding, dry, it goes down at the end, there were some people typing there, I&#8217;d love to hear what you were saying about up speak and what you noticed in yourself. Please send that through.

Do you feel the difference? So let&#8217;s say a sentence on a really simple sentence with both of those variations, the sentence is gonna be&hellip; I have something to say. A simple sentence, but now do it with up speak and was down blinding. I have something to say you&hellip; Do you like say, I have something to say. Oh, you have something to say. I wanna hear it E-Lindsey. I haven&#8217;t noticed myself doing up speak, but I do notice that I usually use Vocal Fry&hellip;

Yeah, yeah, that&#8217;s related to breathing, by the way, Lindsey, that if you don&#8217;t have enough supported breath that your voice will drop down into your throat&hellip;

Yeah, so that&#8217;s about breath energy. I got stuck there going into fillers or what I also like to call softeners, you can write into the chat box here of what are some examples of your favorite fillers and softeners.

And obviously maybe sort of perhaps basically. So it was a great one, Kevin, like if you overuse. It got Todd. Yeah, fillers and softwares diminish the credibility of your speaking, and yet I&#8217;m not the kind of speaker coach that&#8217;s gonna slap you on the wrist every time you do a filler, like they might do it to as well, to masters, right. That&#8217;s not the kind of speaking coach I am. What I encourage you to do is replace fillers with pauses, replace fillers and softeners with pauses, to give yourself time to clarify your next top instead of racing through or to find the inner confidence to stand firm and be direct with your thought. Let&#8217;s go back to that same sentence, I have something to say with fillers now, I sort of&hellip; Maybe I have, is it okay if I say something? Making something into a question also is a version of softening it. Now, let&#8217;s say that without any fillers or softwares and with doubt lighting, I have something to say. How powerful. Powerful. Got it. Okay, so going to the next piece, which is about body language, we did the voice and I were up in the body, how can you be the most interesting thing in their room&hellip;

Well, first of all, you need to have higher energy than your audience, I recommend just 5% to 10% higher energy, and if you notice right now, I&#8217;m a little higher energy, a higher energy than my everyday self, like my husband and I have a breakfast a higher energy than math, and I&#8217;m higher energy probably then you sitting and watching, so you just wanna raise your energy up a little bit to become the most interesting thing, and they&hellip; Especially with virtual speaking, because your audience is really distracted, so one way you can do that is through camping up your physical presence, let&#8217;s do this together, if you come forward and sit on the edge of your chair or whatever you&#8217;re on&hellip; Let your spine up. Thank you, Amy. That&#8217;s funny, that&#8217;s really funny. Okay, we&#8217;re gonna take our arms up overhead, really high up with the arm printout, why the fingers spread out, yandel your chest a little higher. Lift your chin? Yes. Okay, I take a deep breath here. I&#8217;m gonna add in now some power phrases, this is my version of power poses, power poses from a cutting, she&#8217;s amazing, check out our total, but then my addition to it is the power phrases, we&#8217;re gonna use your whole voice in an attitude of certainty.

Just repeat after me and see how it feels. I am confidence. I believe in myself. What I have to say has value when I speak, others listen and the world needs my voice. Yeah, yes. Okay, to notice how you feel and what&#8217;s different after being in that big open position, also saying those powerful phrases, give me a sense of how that impacted you in the Slack room. What was different? Like ta-da-A-B says a clue.

Kudo storage speakers bringing the energy without seeing their audience&hellip; Totally, that&#8217;s harder. I love having this chat room, thanks for engaging with me there, it makes me feel like we&#8217;re in this together. Okay, so how was that for you to do the power pose and power phrases? We&#8217;re gonna keep rolling, but I&#8217;d love to hear how that was for you, we&#8217;re gonna go into that teaming technology section where this gets more technical, more practical, these are some tech best practices for virtual speaking. Number one is similar to what we just did. Set up to be seen. Thank you, Lindsey. I feel silly, but definitely effective. I know it&#8217;s just cheesy, but it works totally. Lol, did you take a picture on my desk of my desk? Yeah, I think this picture is a great example of a setup for a virtual speaking, so Okay, step one, you&#8217;re gonna sit up to be seen, you&#8217;re gonna have that lifted spine.

And then that&#8217;s gonna make&hellip; You have to adjust your camera set up that your camera is at eye level, not lower or higher, that it&#8217;s right at eye level, which will support your eye contact, I&#8217;ll talk more about that in second and&hellip; The lighting is really important. I think we all know this at this point, but then I still have people that I get on to zoom weather, see as speakers that are dark, their pieces are dark.

Make sure you have light in your face, background, I see this all-time, whether it&#8217;s a virtual background or a real background, make sure it amplifies you, it makes the audience focus on you, not on those stuff behind you, but the virtual background, this is a big deal, I&#8217;m gonna put something into the Slack or in right now that&#8217;s a bunch of links of the things that I use to make my virtual studio, and one of those things is a green screen, because if you wanna use Virtual backgrounds, which I do often, a green screen is&hellip; It&#8217;s sort of like it just&hellip; You need it in order to not disappear into the virtual background, and they&#8217;re really not expensive audio, you must enhance your audio in some way, you can use these little ear buds or even just the regular ones with the cord doesn&#8217;t matter, enhance your audio &#8217;cause remember that&#8217;s the most impactful part of your non-verbal communication and eye contact&hellip; I get this question all the time. There&#8217;s actually a blog on my website all about eye contact for virtual, so if you wanna go deeper, it&#8217;s on the site, but my general thing is look up towards the top third of your screen, you don&#8217;t have to stare down the camera, but be in the top third of the screen, so that they have a sense that you&#8217;re looking towards them and

Really&hellip; I know that you have to look at the chat box, sometimes you have to look at some notes sometimes as long as you stay present forward instead of zoning out in other directions. It&#8217;s good. Yeah, it works. And see, Kevin says before I got destinies underground bunker

Totally. There&#8217;s a lot of people like that. Let&#8217;s look at this guy is set up a little bit closer, he&#8217;s got his ear, but in, he&#8217;s got a nice outfit on, brings out his credibility, he&#8217;s got a bright light on his face, that ring light, and I have a ring light and those links that I gave you just now, he&#8217;s his camera at eye level, he has a teleprompter, not necessary, but the teleprompter is behind the camera so that his eye contact can be right at the camera, you can maintain that, he&#8217;s got his notes there ready to go, he&#8217;s got the blinds closed, so that there&#8217;s consistent lighting, lots of good things going on here. You go a little deeper into this, your audience still would be paying attention even if you have high energy and great non-verbals unless you specifically engage them when it comes to virtual stuff. And so my suggestion is that you have some sort of audience engagement, at least once every five minutes to actively engage your audience to require their engagement with you, or else you&#8217;re just gonna be doing their own thing and floating off&hellip; I&#8217;ll come back to that and just evenly.

So your audience won&#8217;t be paying attention unless you do some of these things.

Audience engagement techniques could include asking

Questions, that&#8217;s the basics, right? Even questions that your audience is not gonna reply to right away, something like this, a hypothetical question, the best way to engage your audiences to ask questions&hellip; Right. Don&#8217;t you know&hellip; Don&#8217;t you think you know you&#8217;ve been there before. Right, anything that is a little question in the end is a version of hypothetical, like I don&#8217;t need a response right now, but it&#8217;s an engagement technique to go a little further with that is body pulling, body calling, if you have everybody&#8217;s video on&hellip; I can say, Give me a thumbs up if&hellip; Or show me your fingers, show me all 10 of your fingers it&hellip; Or raise your hand if&hellip; Give me a finger on to 10 if&hellip; Whatever, but

This can also translate into a chat box, give me a number one to 10 if you this and people are writing in the chat box, give me a thumbs up emoji. Zoom has reactions&hellip; Any kind of polling like that that happens in the moment is so effective and it won&#8217;t interrupt the flow of your presentation, virtual techniques. What I mean by that is, Gosh, it&#8217;s a huge range of things, and I&#8217;m gonna put two different things in another chat box now about that&hellip; A great set up. Who is at Amy&#8217;s? Cool.

Looks good. Looks calm.

Yeah, so virtual techniques, they just put two different articles in the chat that are about different virtual games and things you can do like a zoom, there&#8217;s the white boar that ever you can write on, you can do breakout rooms and have sharing, etcetera. Any way that you can use technology to keep people engaged is what we&#8217;re up to you here, gotta do something, don&#8217;t just expect that they&#8217;re engaged, make it a conversation and&hellip; Thank you. Whoever said that I was modeling. Not really. Well, that&#8217;s great, Thank you, Samantha.

Okay, so we talked about a lot in this half an hour zooms by a half an hour. Not that very long.

Let&#8217;s go over it. Make sure you got it all. We talked about managing nerves and how that you must learn how to regulate your own nervous system for that anxiety relief and maybe panic relief that you know how to regulate that so that you can have the inner confidence to then project outer confidence. Yeah, you need to master your nonverbal communication, which is a whole whole thing to train yourself in, but the process is learning to use your body and your voice so that it&#8217;s congruent with your message. Right, so they&#8217;re working together. And then we talked about taming technology, engaging your audience on purpose, like I said, at least once every five minutes, and coming across as a leader virtually, because you use technology in a way that highlights you&hellip; That makes you look good.

And it&#8217;s not as hard as people think. It just takes a little bit of preparation.

So my question here to you, towards the end of our time together is where do you need to grow out of these things that we just talked about him worked on, reflect&hellip; Where are the areas that you need to implement right away? Can you do some deep breathing before the next presentation, can you be more aware of your uplifting or your fillers in the next presentation, can you adjust your tech set up, what is the most important for you? And then what if I could help you with those things? &#8217;cause really, this is an intro to something that is a very personalized journey of building confidence, that doesn&#8217;t happen at half an hour, a confidence thing time. So if it&#8217;s alright with you, I&#8217;m gonna share, I&#8217;m gonna invite you to the confidence on stage program. As you can feel out if it&#8217;s a fit for you, I&#8217;ll go through this real quick, it&#8217;s the competence on stage program support smart professionals like all of you to relax into their authentic presence, to express through your body and your voice fully so that your non-verbals are working for you and empowers you to use your message for engagement and connection.

Briefly, I&#8217;m gonna go through what it includes one-on-one coaching, you get guidance to transform anxiety in the confidence, expert feedback and leaves are coaching, so you don&#8217;t have to use robotic public speaking skills and of course, accountability to accomplish your goals around visibility, which I think is impossible to do on your own. &#8217;cause it&#8217;s about being visible, it includes a virtual course which has six modules, here&#8217;s just an example of three of them, going from regulating our nervous system and learning to improvise a really important technique, building out speakers, warmer routine so that you know you can always beat your best and then really cultivating your charisma and your energy, and then builds from there, and the last piece of the program is the speaker showcases that happen once a month, these are group calls, we get to practise and front of a life group, get feedback from people that know what they&#8217;re looking for and get to lean back into a safe and supportive space where you can build a new positive muscle memory of confidence

If you&#8217;d like to find out more, enjoying&hellip; Just schedule that complimentary. Consult with me, it&#8217;s my gift to this group, just go to chat with Julia dot com and pack, just grab that link and put it in a browser somewhere right now, &#8217;cause I know you&#8217;re gonna see a lot of talks today and it might get lost to just grab chat with Judy dot com and put it in a browser, there&#8217;ll be a short question that are there, and then I&#8217;m happy to talk to you. I have a, I think, nine or 10 Paul&#8217;s open this week for this group, so it would be great to chat with you and a special boss for the Chicago camps, is that if you register by April 16th, I&#8217;m just throwing in my mini-course Bundle that has that when you&#8217;re nervous, talk and what&#8217;s the other one? In prompt to speaking and&hellip; Oh, more about virtual speaking. Yeah, so I&#8217;m gonna throw in that bundle for you should you choose to join.

Alright, thank you so much for this opportunity.
